It is usually assumed that software engineering is about making sure that the project gets completed before its deadline with all the requirements that a customer wants. However, the ethical and responsibilities are not discussed as much as they are very key in making sure that the project is accomplished. Like this project and many other projects, the work is divided up into many different parts as it becomes easier to do a big project when there are multiple smaller steps. However, if a teammate does not work on the project where their part is needed in order to move onto the next part is it on the other teammates to remind them to do it? On the other hand that teammate could have difficult days dealing with other things and not have had the time to work on the project. Should you do the work that is meant for your teammate in order to continue on with the project or should you wait for them to finish and give them the time but also risk having the project be late? This can be a big ethical problem that can happen in any project that is being built. Engineering solutions are needed everywhere in society as they have a great effect on the world. Some of the most positive and revolutionary impacts have come from engineering projects as they build new technology and solutions that the world needs. Global engineering solutions like new water purification and electrical grids are needed to provide the most simple things in life. In economics, engineering has helped the stock market as it currently runs on computers and algorithms that have been made over time. These computers and algorithms have made many people billions and have led to trading in seconds which was never thought of before. In the social aspect, one big thing engineering has brought has been the many social media apps that have transformed how people spend their time and connect to others. Social media allows for friends and family to connect across countries and allow them to connect and follow each other. Engineering is also being put to help reverse the effect of global warming by carbon capturing. This would help the environment as global warming is an issue that needs lots of help in order to make sure that we can keep living on Earth. Engineering is a key aspect to all parts of our life as it helps to improve and better every part of our life. Without engineering many of our social, global, economic, and environmental solutions would not have been thought of and the world would be very different from the one that we live in today.
